{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ## Sizzle\
\
So, the problem we want to fix is that the generated noise produces many random impulses distributed across all the audible frequencies, but we want fewer and only in a certain frequency range -- the range in which we want to hear the sizzle.\
\
To do this, we can use a filter. A filter affects sounds by excluding certain frequencies and allowing others to pass through unchanged. An equalizer on your stereo makes use of filters.\
\
We'll use a certain type of filter called a "bandpass" filter, which will allow certain everything around a given frequency through, and cut out those on either side. To do this I placed an object after the "noise~" object and entered the text "bp~ 2000 2". This says to Pd: "Create a band pass filter, set it's center frequency to 2000 and its Q to 2".\
\
Let's go over that again. The object "bp~" is a bandpass filter object. Pd objects also take arguments, like a function or shell command. In this case, the arguments are 2000 and 2, separated by a space. 2000 sets the center frequency to 2 kilohertz, or 2000 cycles per second, roughly midway into the audible frequencies. The Q value specifies how quickly to attenuate, or gradually "turn down" the frequencies on either side of the center, making a bell shape. A Q of 2 is fairly broad, so the filter will let a wide band around the center frequency through.\
\
If you want to hear what this sounds like, connect the "noise~" to the filter and the filter to the "output~". It sounds a lot closer to what we want. Let's cut down on the number of impulses just a little bit more by disconnecting the filter from the outlet.\
\
To do this select Edit > Edit Mode from the menu, select a connection line going from "noise~" to "output~" and press delete. Select and delete the other line, too. Edit Mode is a toggle in Pd, which switches between a mode where you can select and move objects and a "performance" mode where you can interact with objects. In Edit Mode when hovering over an object, your mouse pointer will turn into a pointing hand.\
\
Now continue by adding below the "noise~" object an object with the text "max~ 0.2" and then another object after that with "-~ 0.2" (minus-tilde). Then connect the filter to the "max~", the "max~" to the "-~", and the "-~" to both sides of the "output~". That sounds even closer to a sizzling sound.\
\
What we did here was to use the "max~" object to only allow the signal from the filter through when the amplitude was above 0.2 (where 1 is the highest and -1 the lowest value). This will cut out frequencies below 0.2, and keep all the amplitudes positive. Since we did that, we want to subtract 0.2 with a "-~" to "re-center" the wave to where the lowest amplitude is 0, not 0.2.\
\
[editor: I have a pdf image to go here]\
\
It might make it a little clearer if we look at graphs of the noise, the filtered noise, and then the signal with a max of 0.2, recentered.\
\
[editor: I have a pdf image to go here]\
\
That sounds a lot more like a sizzling pan of bacon. Next step, let's add pops for an even more realistic sound.}